Which United States president earned the nickname “The Trust-Buster” due to his anti-monopoly stance in the early twentieth century?
Roosevelt
Which famous American mobster spent 4½ years at Alcatraz during his eleven-year sentence for tax evasion
Capone
Name this southern African country with capital Antananarivo that controls the fourth-largest island in the world.
Madagascar
Okeechobee. Crocodiles, manatees, and mangrove trees are among the distinctive features of what state’s Everglades National Park?
Florida
This politician was interrupted by his 2022 Democratic challenger, Beto O'Rourke, during a press conference about the Robb Elementary School shooting in Uvalde. Name this current governor of Texas.
Abbott
This person is held to be the first male convert to Islam, and he succeeded Uthman as the fourth and last Rightly Guided Caliph. Name this husband of Muhammad’s daughter, Fatima, who Shias revere as the first Imam.
Ali
The leader of this group receives magical protection from, but later abandons, Medea. Name this group of heroes led by Jason on a quest for the Golden Fleece.
Argonaut
Thomas Dixon Jr. advanced the Lost Cause with a book trilogy glorifying this organization that was adapted into the film Birth of a Nation. Nathan Bedford Forrest founded this white supremacist organization.
Ku Klux Klan
Lost Cause supporters point to this scorched earth campaign as Northern Aggression. Savannah, Georgia was presented as a “Christmas gift” at the end of this 1864 campaign across Georgia led by William Tecumseh Sherman.
Sherman’s March to the Sea
Name this belief established by Alexander Stephens and supported by the Dunning School which presents the Confederacy as a “heroic defender” against Northern Aggression during the Civil War
Lost Cause
Because of the Zika virus epidemic, some athletes were afraid to compete in this city when it hosted the Olympics in 2016. Name this city that used to be the capital of Brazil.
Rio de Janeiro
When this quantity is too high, the federal reserve usually increases interest rates to slow down the economy. Name this general increase in prices over time.
Inflation
This quantity is proportional to the average kinetic energy of molecules.
Temperature
Name this island that is now the largest and most populous of the Greek islands.
Crete
Name this author of “Mammon and the Archer”, “The Ransom of Red Chief”, and “The Gift of the Magi”
O. Henry
Name this “universal solvent”, each molecule of which consists of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.
Water
Name this president who was in power during the start of the Great Depression.
Hoover
Name this writer of the novel 1Q84
Murakami
This organ has three very small bones called the malleus, incus, and stapes, whose names mean “hammer”, “anvil”, and “stirrup”
ear
Freddie Mercury was born to a Farsi family living on this archipelago.
Zanzibar
Jonathan Swift suggested that residents of this island eat their babies amidst a famine that preceded a potato blight.
Ireland
The author of The Silmarillion gave the lecture “Beowulf: the Monsters and the Critics.”
Tolkien
This philosopher’s belief that children should respect their elders is known as filial piety. The Analects is a compilation of the sayings of what ancient Chinese philosopher?
Confucius
Name this author of Mansfield Park and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
This building was completed in 1653 to honor the third and favorite wife of Shah Jahan. Name this building in Agra, India.
Taj Mahal
Name this creature that has a human head and lion’s body and is depicted on a “great” sculpture in Egypt.
Sphinx
These organelles are the location where translating mRNA into protein occurs.
Ribosome
This person was arrested on December 1, 1955, and she was supported by Martin Luther King Jr.
Parks
When this term is used as a verb in statistics, it refers to the methods of restriction, matching, or randomization, all of which are done to address confounding variables.
Control
This polygon’s central angles each measure 60 degrees.
Hexagon
Name this country whose capital is Bogotá.
Colombia
Name this high brass instrument that now has valves but historically did not.
Trumpet
Name this French author whose works are collected into Remembrance of Things Past, which is now more commonly titled In Search of Lost Time.
Proust
Name this first element on the periodic table.
Hydrogen
This number is the only positive number that equals its own reciprocal.
1
Name this sea that borders Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
Baltic
Name this dynasty that ruled between the Qin dynasty and the Three Kingdoms.
Han
Name this molecular shape based on a steric number of 4, with one lone pair and three atoms bonded to the central atom.
Trigonal pyramidal
Name this author of “The Long Rain”, which was included in The Illustrated Man; and Fahrenheit 451.
Bradbury
Name this woman who was arrested for voting in New York in 1872.
Anthony
Name this person whose photograph, taken by Mathew Brady, is on the five-dollar bill.
Lincoln
The hero of this poem helps Hrothgar, the king of the Danes. Name this Old English epic poem about the killing of Grendel.
Beowulf
Name this 19th-century poet who wrote “To a Waterfowl” and “Thanatopsis”.
Bryant
Name this belief system whose Noble Eightfold Path and Four Noble Truths are based on the ideas of Siddhartha Gautama.
Buddhism
Name this play by William Shakespeare that is set on an island and features the sorcerer Prospero.
Tempest
This type of infectious agent can only multiply inside living cells.
Virus
If two lines have slopes that are opposite reciprocals, then the lines have this relationship.
Perpendicular
Name this double-stranded molecule in chromosomes that contains genetic information.
DNA
Name this novel set mostly in Umuofia  in Nigeria that is about Okonkwo and was written by Chinua Achebe.
Things Fall Apart
Name this monarch who succeeded “Bloody Mary”, her half-sister.
Elizabeth I
These things are the discrete wave-packets hypothesized by Albert Einstein in his explanation of the photoelectric effect.
Photons
Name this French composer of The Damnation of Faust, Harold in Italy, and Symphonie fantastique.
Berlioz
Name this giant lumberjack in American folklore who was accompanied by Babe the Blue Ox.
Bunyan
Name this poet who wrote “To the Slanderers of Russia” and The Bronze Horseman
Pushkin
Name this feminist who started Ms. magazine.
Steinem
This communicable disease can be seen as nodules and cavities on lung X-rays, and it causes coughing with bloody mucus.
Tuberculosis
Name this poet who wrote “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”, “The Hollow Men”, and “The Waste Land”
Eliot
Name this Nazi Germany Army leader known as “the Desert Fox”.
Rommel
Name this author of And Then There Were None who introduced Hercule Poirot in The Mysterious Affair at Styles and wrote The Mousetrap.
Miller
Name this element that stores electrical energy, often using two parallel plates.
Capacitor
Name this city that is the capital of Egypt.
Cairo
Name this operation that is performed to the variable in a polynomial of degree 3.
Cubing
Lorenzo Ghiberti sculpted the Gates of Paradise for a building with this purpose.
baptism
During World War II, Phibun negotiated an alliance with this country, allowing its troops to pass through Thailand during the Burma Campaign
Japan
The narrator of this novel opens one chapter by remembering the saying “When children are doing nothing, they are doing mischief.”
Tom Jones
Name this modern European country located where Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon once ruled.
Spain
Name this state that contains the towns Fayetteville, Fort Smith, and Hot Springs and whose capital is Little Rock.
Arkansas
Name this novel about Amy, Beth, Jo, and Meg March that was written by Louisa May Alcott.
Little Women
Name this Russian composer of Petrushka and The Rite of Spring.
Stravinsky
Identify this theorem that relates the lengths of the legs to the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle.
Pythagorean
Name this planet that is the second from the Sun
Venus
This person destroyed the Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people, in 1995. Name this person who set off that bomb in 1995.
McVeigh
Name this organ that secretes glucagon and insulin from its islets
Pancreas
Name this novel by Leo Tolstoy about the French invasion of Russia
War and Peace
The atomic number of an element is the number of these particles in an atom
Proton
Name this country that started out as a project of the American Colonization Society, which is why its capital is named Monrovia.
Liberia
Name this author of The Jungle.
Sinclair
Name this explorer who reached Cape Breton Island, Labrador, or Newfoundland, which means he is probably the first European to reach North America after the Vikings.
Cabot
In that novel, this author has Stamp Paid explain to Paul D why the community is afraid of Sethe. Name this author of Sula and Beloved.
Morrison
This process occurs when water forms on a cold glass. Name this phase change from gas to liquid.
Condensation
Name this Italian writer from the Middle Ages who wrote the Divine Comedy
Dante
Name these single-celled prokaryotes that are responsible for diseases which can be treated with antibiotics.
Bacteria
Name this person who from 1923 to 1938 served as the first president of Turkey
a Kemal Ataturk
Name this newspaper that is headquartered in our nation’s capital.
Washington Post
Name this battle at which William Prescott gave the legendary command “Don’t fire until you see the whites of their eyes.”
Bunker Hill
Name this program by which the United States sent supplies and equipment to the Allies, often on a temporary basis, during World War II.
Lend–Lease
This number is multiplied by the product of the base and height of a triangle to find the area.
0.5
Name this English writer of Samson Agonistes and Paradise Lost.
Milton
Name this painting that is parodied in Marcel Duchamp’s L.H.O.O.Q. that is in the Louvre
Mona Lisa
Name this trickster god from Norse mythology.
Loki
Name this English playwright who wrote The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
Pinter
This element usually makes up about one-third of brass, with most of the rest being copper. Name this metal whose atomic symbol is “Zn”
Zinc
Name this concept that is supposed to be separated from government, despite the national motto “In God We Trust.”
Religion
Postulates and axioms are accepted as true without these things, but mathematical theorems are supported by these things.
Proof
Name this novel that is set in West Egg on Long Island, is narrated by Nick Carraway, and was written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Great Gatsby
Name this quantity that can be measured in liters or cubic meters.
Volume
This quantity equals electric potential difference divided by resistance according to Ohm’s law. Name this quantity, equal to charge per unit time, that is measured in amperes.
Current
A proposed voting rights act is named after this person. Name this congressman from Georgia who died in 2020.
Lewis
Name this Leonard Bernstein musical about the rivalry between the Sharks and the Jets, two gangs in New York City.
West Side Story
Name this leader of the Spanish conquest of Peru who defeated the Incan Empire.
Pizarro
In this type of quadrilateral, the diagonals are both congruent and perpendicular bisectors of each other
Square
This person was friends with Saul’s son Jonathan and was the King of Israel between Saul and Solomon.
David
Name this author of Black Boy and Native Son
Wright
Name this degenerative disorder characterized by slow movement and tremors.
Parkinson
Name this president who was nicknamed “Old Rough and Ready” and was replaced by Millard Fillmore when he died in office.
Taylor
Name this phenomenon caused by reflection at Brewster’s angle, in which a transverse wave vibrates in a single direction
polarization
Name the successor of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, who founded a namesake shogunate which ruled Japan until 1868.
Tokugawa
Name the British scientist who posited that matter is made up of indivisible atoms.
Dalton
Name the European country where Albert Einstein worked in a patent office in the city of Bern.
Switzerland
This man’s approval ratings sagged after firing Douglas MacArthur during the Korean War. Name this President who defeated Thomas Dewey in the 1948 presidential election.
Truman
Large amounts of Baby Boomer retirees have caused this program to head towards insolvency by 2034. Name this national pension system that (almost) everyone pays into.
Social Security
The Ganges River flows into what large northeastern bay of the Indian Ocean?
Bengal
Name this British poet who collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on the collection Lyrical Ballads and wrote “Daffodils” and “Tintern Abbey.”
Wordsworth
Name this group of elements, which includes barium, calcium, and magnesium.
alkaline earth
The law of this function is c squared equals a squared plus b squared minus two a b this function of theta and this function is the reciprocal of secant. Name this trigonometric function that is defined as adjacent over hypotenuse.
cos
This country was the first to have nationwide e-voting, and it is the home country of Skype. Name this northernmost Baltic state, with the capital at Tallinn.
Estonia
This composer was known for his use of syncopation in his pieces and popularized ragtime. Name this composer of “Maple Leaf Rag” and “The Entertainer.”
Joplin
In 2012, Apple was awarded 1 billion dollars in an intellectual property lawsuit against this company
Samsung
Name this 1803 case in which Chief Justice John Marshall established the concept of judicial review.
Marbury
Name this element with atomic number 7 that makes up 78% of the atmosphere.
Nitrogen
Tom uses a pickaxe to avenge the death of preacher Jim Casy in what novel about the Joad family’s migration to California by John Steinbeck?
Grapes of Wrath
This man’s partnership with Steven Spielberg was the genesis for the Indiana Jones series. Name this director and creator of Star Wars
Lucas
Name this central African country whose Hutu people committed a genocide against the Tutsi in the 1990s.
Rwanda
Holy figures in this religion include Marcus Garvey and Haile Selassie. Name this religion most commonly practiced in Jamaica.
Rastafari
William the Conqueror encouraged the Marcher Lords to take over this region, which had recently united under Gruffydd ap Llywelyn. Name this constituent country of the United Kingdom whose flag features a red dragon.
Wales
This quantity is calculated by multiplying molar concentration of solute times the ideal gas constant times absolute temperature times the van ’t Hoff index.
Osmotic pressure
Name this shape whose volume is pi times r squared times h.
Cylinder
Name this supporter of heliocentrism who, according to legend, dropped two objects from the Leaning Tower of Pisa.
Galileo
Name this author of Maggie: A Girl of the Streets who wrote about Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Crane
Name this country that includes the world’s most populous island, Java—the location of its capital, Jakarta.
Indonesia
This target of the “Ma, Ma, where’s my Pa?” chant defeated James G. Blaine in one election, and he crushed the Pullman strike during the Panic of 1893. Name this only man to serve nonconsecutive terms as President.
Cleveland
This man developed his most famous theory after comparing animal husbandry with the work of Thomas Malthus, and published that theory along with Alfred Wallace. That theory was developed after observing beak structures in finches. Name this British naturalist who wrote On the Origin of Species.
Darwin
These things partially title a work in which a man with an IQ of 68 receives a surgery previously performed on the title mouse to make him smarter. Eliza Doolittle sells these things at the beginning of Pygmalion. Name these plants that Charlies hopes someone will put on Algernon’s grave in a novel by Daniel Keyes.
flowers
Name this action in the title of an Alan Paton novel addressed to “the Beloved Country.”
cry
Name this family of insects, members of the order Hymenoptera along with wasps and bees, and which live in their namesake hills.
Ants
Name this British author of The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, who argued for deficit spending as stimulus during recessions
Keynes
This country’s annexation of Bosnia sparked the Bosnian Crisis. In 1848, the independence of one part of this future country was advocated by Lajos Kossuth, and this country’s ultimatum to Serbia sparked World War I. Name this historical European country governed from Vienna and Budapest.
Austria-Hungary
What musical, originally starring Kristin Chenoweth and Idina Menzel, about the backstory of an antagonist from The Wizard of Oz?
Wicked
Name this lover of Catherine Earnshaw and main antagonist of Emily Brontë’s Wuthering Heights.
Heathcliff
He killed one monster aided by his nephew Iolaus and was forced to complete tasks like slaying the Hydra and the Nemean Lion. Name this Greek hero who performed 12 labors.
Heracles
Drag queen Marsha P. Johnson apocryphally threw the first brick in this location. In 1969, police raided what Greenwich Village gay bar, whose namesake riot is celebrated in annual “pride parades”?
Stonewall
This quantity, which is the first derivative of angular momentum, can be expressed as the cross product of the force vector and the position vector. Name this rotational analog of force.
torque
Name this theory that was later augmented by a “general” theory of gravitation, both of which were developed by Albert Einstein.
Theory of Relativity
The story of this empire’s founding is told in the Epic of Sundiata. What empire ruled by Mansa Musa lends its name to a West African country?
Mali
In a story in that collection which takes place in the Tabard Inn, the Wife of Bath describes a knight who seeks to find what women desire most. Name this author of The Canterbury Tales.
Chaucer
Jim Mattis served in this position until 2019. Name the Cabinet position which oversees the military.
Secretary of Defense
Germanium, gallium, and silicon are examples of these materials, and metalloids are often examples of these materials. Name this type of material whose conductivity is between that of an insulator and conductor.
semiconductor
This goddess was given the golden apple because she promised Paris the most beautiful woman in the world. Name this equivalent of Ishtar and Inanna, the Greek goddess of beauty and love.
Aphrodite
One of the pigments of this color uses lead [led] chromate, and one of the shades of this color is called “canary”.
Yellow
Much of this organ is lined by detrusor muscle, and the lower part of this organ has a triangular region called the vesical trigone that has stretch receptors.
Bladder
Name this scientist who was able to use a noise to get dogs to salivate.
Pavlov
Name this president who unsuccessfully ran for re-election in 1980 against Ronald Reagan.
Carter